README.md, before:

gnome-shell-extension-cpu-freq
==============================

View the actual frequency and change CPU frequency governor from gnome shell.

There is a bit of work to make it work though.

cpufreq
-------

You need CPU Freq set up to use it.  
Archlinux: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/CPU_Frequency_Scaling  
(if you have a good tutorial for your distro of choice, file a bug, I'll add it to the list)  

You also need cpufreq-selector, which is usually in the gnome-applets package.

cpupower is now also supported

The best way to test you have these is to type in terminal:
> which cpufreq-info  
or
> which cpupower  
> which cpufreq-selector  

and check if they exist.


Admin rights for changing the governor
--------------------------------------

When the extension sets a governor, it does it one by one, calling cpufreq-selector for every cpu.

The problem here is that it will raise a popup asking for your password for each cpu. Typing the password for 4 CPUs can become quite annoying.

To solve this, I use (in archlinux):

Create and edit the file: /var/lib/polkit-1/localauthority/50-local.d/org.gnome.cpufreqselector.pkla

with:

> [org.gnome.cpufreqselector]  
> Identity=unix-user:**USER**  
> Action=org.gnome.cpufreqselector  
> ResultAny=no  
> ResultInactive=no  
> ResultActive=yes  

replacing **USER** with your username.

An easier solution in Archlinux to give privileges to the user
--------------------------------------------------------------

The package 'desktop-privileges' from aur provides an easier method to set privileges for cpu frequency selector.  
The user needs to be in the power group though.


I'm open to any advice to make this easier/better.

Thanks
------
https://github.com/LeCoyote  
https://github.com/victornoel
https://github.com/sonic414

Commit message:

Sorry, for the many changes at once, but I thought I'd like to share them nonetheless, as they include some improvements (at least on my setup). Seperated user interface from backend for reading and setting cpu governors, frequencies, etc. Also removed dependencies from cpufreq-info/cpupower, as values are now read from sysfs directly, which causes no stutter (calling cpufreq-info did on my machine). cpufreq-selector is still used for setting cpu governor.

README.md, after:

gnome-shell-extension-cpu-freq
==============================

View the actual frequency and change CPU frequency governor from gnome shell.

The actual shown frequency is the average of all current frequencies.

There is a bit of work to make it work though.

cpufreq
-------

You need CPU Freq set up to use it.  
Archlinux: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/CPU_Frequency_Scaling  
(if you have a good tutorial for your distro of choice, file a bug, I'll add it to the list)  

You also need cpufreq-selector, which is usually in the gnome-applets package.

The best way to test you have these is to type in terminal:
> which cpufreq-selector  
and check if it exists.

Instead of cpufreq-info or cpu-power the current, minimum and maximum frequencies, aswell, as the current governor is read from sysfs, so check if these files are user-readable for your account, should there be any problems. 
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_governors
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governor
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_cur_freq
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_min_freq
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_max_freq
> /sys/bus/cpu/devices/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_frequencies



Admin rights for changing the governor
--------------------------------------

When the extension sets a governor, it does it one by one, calling cpufreq-selector for every cpu.

The problem here is that it will raise a popup asking for your password for each cpu. Typing the password for 4 CPUs can become quite annoying.

To solve this, I use (in archlinux):

Create and edit the file: /var/lib/polkit-1/localauthority/50-local.d/org.gnome.cpufreqselector.pkla

with:

> [org.gnome.cpufreqselector]  
> Identity=unix-user:**USER**  
> Action=org.gnome.cpufreqselector  
> ResultAny=no  
> ResultInactive=no  
> ResultActive=yes  

replacing **USER** with your username.

An easier solution in Archlinux to give privileges to the user
--------------------------------------------------------------

The package 'desktop-privileges' from aur provides an easier method to set privileges for cpu frequency selector.  
The user needs to be in the power group though.


I'm open to any advice to make this easier/better.

Thanks
------
https://github.com/LeCoyote  
https://github.com/victornoel
https://github.com/sonic414
https://github.com/elfitzo
